Hi, in this video we're going to provide a brief solidity review.
As always, for full resources in regards to developer documentation,
head over to solidities developer documentation support,
utilizing your handling blow.
Topics covered in this section are: solidity versioning, contracts,
variable types such as booleans, integers, addresses, strings.
We'll go in more detail in regards to
variable definition regarding arithmetic operations,
we'll navigate to structs and conclude with mappings.
Let's go over some comments solidity syntax.
Now, remember this is geared for quick review.
So, we're going to walk you through some basic concepts,
but you should always go ahead and head over to
the developer documentation for full review regarding the resources,
and tooling for your smart contract development.
First up, solidity versioning.
Solidity source files can contain any number of contract definitions.
Each solidity files also includes a thing called version pragma.
It is used to prevent the code from being compiled with future compile or
versions that might introduce incompatible changes with your smart contract.
Most of the time the definition looks like this.
In the example, 0.420 is the desired compiler version.
Contracts in solidity are similar to classes in object-oriented languages.
They contain data, and variables,
and functions that can modify these variables.
They're defined by using a contract keyword,
followed by the contract name,
and two curly brackets which later encloses the contract variables and its functions.
Let's start by finding out what type of variables there are.
First up, state variables.
State variables are used to store information on the blockchain.
They can also be manipulated by the functions within the contract.
Solidity is a statically typed programming language,
meaning that each variable must have its type specified.
Examples of the main datatypes.
Booleans. Contracts only have one of the following values: true or false.
The keyword for boolean is bool.
Integers can be split into two main groups,
regular integers and unsigned integers.
Regular integers can store both positive and negative values while
unsigned integers can only store values that are zero or higher.
Regular answers has keyword INTA to INT 256.
The number specifies that the maximum number of bits it can store,
thus limiting the maximum value and it could be any number between eight and 256,
as long as it's incremented in steps of eight.
The INT keyword alone would be understood as INT 256.
Now that you've learned to define the variables for your contract,
it's time to go through some basic math commands that will be useful later for
defining your smart contracts code, arithmetic operations.
Integers can be used for arithmetic operations, such as addition,
subtraction, multiplication, division, remainder,
exponents and so forth.
A real-world example of utilizing arithmetics is referencing back to our pizza example.
Here, we define the pizzaSlices,
the number of people and the slicesPerPerson.
That's the moment where we need to apply arithmetics.
SlicesPerPerson, pizzaSlices divided by people.
Next up, structs.
As we've learned the basics for defining variables,
now we learn to create the structure that defines your variable properties.
A struck is a special data type that allows a programmer to group a list of variables.
Structures are defined like this.
In this example, we're going to define a structure called Car.
With that we have some variables like make,
model, year, and horsepower.
Pretty simple. With that,
you can combine structs and utilize mappings.
Now, that you've defined your variables,
we'll learn how to create a variable that will later map your variable to the blockchain,
a special list where all other variables are stored.
Mappings allow the programmer to create key-value pairs and store them as a list.
Concepts like this are also known as hash tables.
Mappings are defined like this.
We have a key_type,
and the key_value, and then we define it in name.
Key_types should be replaced by a data type.
Two commonly used variable type for mapping keys,
we already know about our addresses and uint.
It's important to know that not every data type can be used as a key.
For instance, structs and other mapping cannot be used as keys.
Similarly, key_value should only be replaced by the value type.
Unlike with keys, solidity does not limit the data types for value.
It can be anything including structs and other mappings.
Here, we have mapping with the address,
assign it at uint256 with the name of balance.
This mapping could hold the bank account balance in
uint256 for the given address. A quick recap.
We went over the definitions of defining
your preferred solidity compiler and its version.
We discussed variable types, arithmetic,
and supporting operations for structs and mappings.
I hope that this introduction to solidity
helps jump-start your creative process while you work through your project.